[WIP - do not merge] Content section for writing guidelines in EUI (#7710)
elastic/eui: website/docs/03_content/word-choice.mdx

---
slug: words
title: Word choice
---

Find the right term to use in your UI copy.

## Use these preferred words and terms

Use these words and terms in the scenarios described in the following table:

| Word | Usage notes |
| ------- | ------------ |

> | **add** | Use for establishing a new relationship.  Often used in create-then-add scenarios. Create a dashboard, then add a visualization. In button labels, always follow _add_ by an object. Remove is the correct opposite. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **add** a| Use for establishing a new relationship. Often used in create-then-add scenarios, for example, create a dashboard, then add a visualization. In button labels, always follow _add_ with a noun. Remove is the correct opposite. |
```

| **cancel** | Use to stop an action without saving pending changes. |

> | **can't** | Use to indicate you don't have the ability to do something.  Often confused with _unable_. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **can't** | Use to indicate you don't have the ability to do something. Often confused with _unable_. |
```

> | **create** | Use for creating an object from scratch. In button labels, always followed by an object.  Not _create new_.  Delete is the correct opposite. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **create** a| Use for creating an object from scratch. In button labels, always follow _create_ with a noun. Do not use _create new_. Delete is the correct opposite. |
```

> | **delete** | Use when deleting data that users can no longer retrieve.  Create is the correct opposite. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **delete** | Use when deleting data that users can no longer retrieve. Create is the correct opposite. |
```

| **edit** | Don't use _change_ or _modify_. Edit is the better choice for localization. |

> | **enter** | Use for the user entering text. Don't use _type_. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **enter** | Use when the user enters text. Don't use _type_. |
```

| **boot** | Use _start_ or _run_ instead. |
| **bottom left, bottom right** | Use _lower left_ or _lower right_ instead. Hyphenate when using as an adjective. For example, lower-left corner. |
| **choose** |  Use _select_ instead. See Words for interacting with UI|
| **disable** | Use _turn off_, _block_, or _hide_. |
| **enable** | Use _turn on_ or _allow_. |
| **easy**, **easily** | It can be frustrating for users to think that something is easy, but then struggle to do the task. Typically the same meaning can be conveyed without this word.|
| **execute** | Use _run_ or _start_ instead.|
| **hack** | For a noun, use _tip_ or _work-around_ instead. For a verb, use _configure_ or _modify_. |
| **hit** | For a noun, use _visits_ (as in web visits). For a verb, use _select_ or _press_.|
| **impact** | Don't use impact as a verb. Use _affect_ instead. |
| **in order to** | Use simple verbs like _to_ instead. |
| **invalid** | Use _not valid_ or _incorrect_ instead. |
| **just** | Don't use before a command, like "_just_ click here."
| **launch** | Use _open_ instead.  |
| **ok** | In button labels, use words that explain the action instead. |

> | **normal**, **normally** | Use _usual_ or _typical_ instead. For _normally_ use _usually_, _typically_, or _generally_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **normal**, **normally** | Use _usual_ or _typical_ instead. For _normally_, use _usually_, _typically_, or _generally_ instead.
```

| **please** | In most cases, _please_ is unnecessary. Only use when the user must wait or do something inconvenient. |
| **simple**, **simply** | Unnecessary because it doesn't add any information or value.|
| **sorry** | Use _sorry_ only in error messages that result in serious problems for the user. |

> | **success** | Unnecessary because _success_ is generally implied.  |

Reviewer: This might benefit from more context or an example. For instance, is this guideline suggesting that success toasts shouldn't use _success_ in the toast copy?

| **terminate** | Use _stop_ or _exit_ instead.|
| **type** | Use _enter_ because there is typically more than one way to enter text. |
| **top left, top right**| Use _upper left_ or _upper right_ instead. Hyphenate when using as an adjective. For example, upper-left corner. |
| **utilize** | Don't use _utilize_ when you mean _use_. |
| **whitelist** | Use _allow list_ instead. |

## Use caution with these words and terms

These words and terms might be appropriate in some situations and inappropriate in others.
Only use them when appropriate.

| Word | Usage notes |
| ------- | ------------ |

> | **app**, **application**| Use only when needed for clarity. Otherwise, a Kibana app name can standalone. App is a well-known abbreviation for application and is preferred. |

Reviewer: I didn't know about the guideline for using "app"! I'm partial to using the complete word in docs because the tone tends to be more formal. Maybe it's different for copy?
 
```suggestion
| **app**, **application**| Use only when needed for clarity. Otherwise, a Kibana application name can stand alone. App is a well-known abbreviation for application and is preferred. |
```

> | **begin** | Use context to decide between _begin_ and _start_. _Begin a procedure_, _begin an analysis_, or _begin an installation_ are common phrases. Similarly, _start a program_, _start an engine_, or _start a timer_ are frequently used. _Start_ is considered less formal than _begin_. _End_ is the correct opposite of _begin_.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **begin** | Use context to decide between _begin_ and _start_. For example, _begin a procedure_, _begin an analysis_, or _begin an installation_ are common phrases. Similarly, _start a program_, _start an engine_, or _start a timer_ are frequently used. _Start_ is considered less formal than _begin_. _End_ is the correct opposite of _begin_.|
```

> | **can** | Use for capability. Rewrite as an action if possible. For example, instead of _You can add..._ use _Add..._. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **can** | Use for capability. Rewrite as an action, if possible. For example, instead of _you can add..._ use _add..._. |
```

> | **click** | OK when describing mouse actions. Otherwise, use verbs that work with multiple devices, such as _select_.   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **click** | Acceptable to use when describing mouse actions. Otherwise, use verbs that work with multiple devices, such as _select_.   |
```

| **clone** | Use when creating a copy that is linked to the original. Often confused with _copy_ and _duplicate_. |
| **copy** | Use when creating an exact copy in the same location as the original. Often confused with _clone_ and _duplicate_. |
| **disable** | Don't use to describe something that is broken. Use _inactive_, _unavailable_, _deactivate_, _turn off_, or _deselect_, depending on the context.|

> | **duplicate** | Use when creating a copy of an object in the same location as the original.  Often confused with _copy_ and _clone_.  |

Reviewer: I think we need to be more explicit than this or maybe add some examples. This explanation is almost identical to the one used for "copy".

| **kill** | Use _cancel_ or _stop_ unless the actual command is `kill`. |
| **may** | Use _may_ for permissibility. Use _can_ for capability. Use _might_ for possibility.  |

> | **start** | Use context to decide between _start_ and _begin_. _Start a program_, _start an engine_, or _start a timer_ are common phrases. Similarly, _begin a procedure_, _begin an analysis_, or _begin an installation_ are frequently used. _Start_ is considered less formal than _begin_.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **start** | Use context to decide between _start_ and _begin_. For example, _start a program_, _start an engine_, or _start a timer_ are common phrases. Similarly, _begin a procedure_, _begin an analysis_, or _begin an installation_ are frequently used. _Start_ is considered less formal than _begin_.|
```
